Neurosymbolic Methods for Rule Mining
Agnieszka ŁAWRYNOWICZa,1, Luis GAL
´
ARRAGA b Mehwish ALAM c
B´
er
´ enice JAULMES c V´ aclav ZEMAN d and Tom´
a
ˇ s KLIEGR d
a Poznan University of Technology, Poland
b INRIA/IRISA, Rennes, France
c T´ el´ ecom Paris, Institut Polytechnique de Paris, France
d Prague University of Economics and Business, Czech Republic
ORCiD ID: Agnieszka Ławrynowicz https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2442-345X, Luis
Gal´ arraga https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0241-5379, Mehwish Alam
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7867-6612, Tom´
a
ˇ s Kliegr https://orcid.org/
0000-0002-7261-0380
Abstract. In this chapter, we address the problem of rule mining, beginning with
essential background information, including measures of rule quality. We then ex-
plore various rule mining methodologies, categorized into three groups: inductive
logic programming, path sampling and generalization, and linear programming.
Following this, we delve into neurosymbolic methods, covering topics such as the
integration of deep learning with rules, the use of embeddings for rule learning, and
the application of large language models in rule learning.
Keywords. rule mining, rule learning, representation learning
1. Introduction
The schema of knowledge graphs (KGs) can be represented using ontological axioms
and/or rules. Rules can be used for explainable inference for tasks such as link prediction
or fact checking [1].
Hovewer, formulating rules manually is demanding in practice. For that reason, au-
tomatic rule learning approaches have attracted attention.
Wu et al. in their survey [2] distinguish three major groups of rule learning methods:
Inductive Logic Programming-based, statistical path generalisation and neuro-symbolic.
In this chapter, to introduce the topic of rule mining and provide necessary backround,
we discuss each of these groups and give a more detailed example of algorithms within
each group paying most attention to neuro-symbolic ones. We also discuss the topic of
using Large Language Models (LLMs) for rule mining.
2. Background
Rules A (Horn) rule is an expression of the form
1Corresponding Author: Author Name, contact details.
June 2024
speaks
speaks speaks
English German
U.v.d. Leyen
gender
worksFor nationality
birthCountry
officialLang
nationality
female
Germany
EU
A. Merkel
birthCountry
male
France
birthCountry
officialLang
worksFor
nationality
gender
E. Macron
French
speaks
Figure 1. Sample knowledge graph.
q1(z0, z1) ∧... ∧qn(zn−1, zn) ⇒p(x, y) (1)
where p(z, y) and each term qi(zi−1, zi) is an atom, that is, a KG fact such that at least one
of its terms is a variable v ∈V . In the remainder of this chapter we denote variables v ∈V
by lowercase letters, and constants by capitalized names, e.g., Germany ∈E , where E is
a set of entities. The left-hand side part of the rule is a logical conjunction of atoms that
we call the body or antecedent of the rule, denoted by B, whereas the right-hand side
atom is called the head or the succedent of the rule, denoted by H. We say two atoms
are connected if they share at least one argument. A conjunction of atoms or a rule is
connected if every atom is transitively connected to every other atom. For instance the
rule nationality(x, z1) ∧officialLang(z1, y) ⇒nationality(x, y) is connected, whereas the
rule speaks(x, z1) ∧officialLang(z2, z3) ⇒speaks(x, y) is not because the second atom is
not reachable from any other atom. Applications on KGs usually require connected rules.
We say a rule is safe if the head variables are present in the rule’s body. For exam-
ple, the rule birthCountry(x, z1) ∧nationality(x, z2) ∧officialLang(z2, z3) ⇒speaks(x, y)
is not safe because variable y is absent in the antecedent, which actually means that y is
existentially quantified. In other words, this rule could be interpreted as ∀x ∃y, z1, z2, z3 :
birthCountry(x, z1)∧nationality(x, z2)∧officialLang(z2, z3) ⇒speaks(x, y). Safeness en-
sures that the rule makes concrete predictions. In our example, the rule states that if
someone, with known birth country is citizen of a country with an official language,
that person speaks some language – we still do not know which. If we instead consider
a safe version of this rule, i.e., ∀x, y ∃y, z1, z2 : birthCountry(x, z1) ∧nationality(x, z2) ∧
officialLang(z2, y) ⇒speaks(x, y), we can now predict the person speaks the official lan-
guage of their country of citizenship. If no variable is existentially quantified, i.e., each
variable appears in at least two different atoms, we say the rule is closed. Most appli-
cations relying on rules resort to safe rules, or more frequently to closed rules such as
∀x, y, z2 : birthCountry(x, z2) ∧nationality(x, z2) ∧officialLang(z2, y) ⇒speaks(x, y).
June 2024
As mentioned before, safe rules can be used to draw specific conclusions, e.g., de-
duce the nationality of a person from known information in a KG K . To do so we need
to introduce the notion of substitution. A substitution σ : V →E is partial mapping from
variables to constants. Applying a substitution to an atom replaces the variables of the
rule by the constants associated to those variables in the substitution. We call the re-
sult of this operation an instantiation. This operation can be naturally ported to conjunc-
tions of atoms, which returns a set of instantiations. If we apply the substitution σ =
{x →E.Macron, z1 →France, y →French}to the conjunction B : birthCountry(x, z1) ∧
officialLang(z1, y), we obtain instantiations that are actual facts (no variables left)
σ (B) = {birthCountry(E.Macron, France), officialLang(France, French)}. Let R be a
rule of the form B ⇒H and σ an instantiation. We say R and σ fire in KG K , if
σ (B) ⊆K , denoted by σ (B) ⊩ K . Put differently an instantiated rule fires in a KG if
all the instantiated body atoms are facts from the KG. If additionally σ (H) ∈K , we say
the rule predicts the fact obtained by instantiating H, which we denote by σ (R) ⊩ K.
That is the case for our example rule and the KG in Figure 1 since both σ (B) and
σ (H) = speaks(E. Macron, French) are in the KG.
Logical rules in KGs are unlikely to make correct predictions every time they fire.
That is why we usually talk about soft rules, that is, rules with exceptions. Take as an
example the rule birthCountry(x, z1) ∧officialLang(z1, y) ⇒speaks(x, y). It is easy to see
that such a rule is overall accurate but may have an exceptions, e.g., people born in a
country but raised elsewhere. In a related note we should be skeptical about rules that
fire or hold in very few cases. It follows from these observations that we need metrics to
quantify the predictive power of rules before using them in applications. A popular score
to quantify the significance of a rule B ⇒H in a KG K is the support, defined as:
suppK (B ⇒H) = #σH : σH (B ⇒H) ⊩ K. (2)
In this equation #σH is the number of unique instantiations σH : vars(H) →E , that is,
instantiations that map the rule head variables to constants in the KG. Intuitively the
support is the number of observed predictions of the rule in the KG. Those predictions
are the positive examples of the rule. The higher the support, the more evidence about
the soundness of the rule we have. If we take as eample the rule
R : birthCountry(x, z1) ∧officialLang(z1, y) ⇒speaks(x, y), (3)
we can see that its support is
suppK (R) = #(x, y) : ∃z1 : birthCountry(x, z1) ∧officialLang(z1, y) ∧speaks(x, y).
In our example graph of Figure 1, this value is 2 because of the substitutions {x →
E.Macron, y →French}and {x →U.v.d.Leyen, y →German}. A popular variant of the
support normalizes Equation 2 by the number of facts in the head relation. This is called
the head coverage:
hcK (B ⇒H) = supp(B ⇒H)
#r(x, y) : r(x, y) ∈K. (4)
June 2024
Our example rule has a head coverage of 2
3 in Figure 1 since it predicts 2 out of the
3 facts of the relation speaks. The support and head coverage are anti-monotonic scores.
This means that adding atoms to an existing rule cannot increase its support. This prop-
erty is crucial when designing efficient algorithms that learn those rules automatically.
But even if a rule has many supporting positive examples, it may also have many
counter-examples, to put it another way, instantiations for which the rule fires but its
predictions are false. If those false predictions outnumber the correct predictions, then we
should take the rule’s predictions with a grain of salt. This illustrates the risk of learning
only from positive examples. The confidence score solves this issue by normalizing the
support by the total number of examples of the rule, both positive and negative:
conf K (B ⇒H) = supp(B ⇒H)
supp(B ⇒H) + (#σH : σH (B) ⊩ K ∧σH (H) ⊯ K ). (5)
The expression on the right-hand side of the denominator describes the number of ex-
amples that make the rule fire but whose predictions, represented by σH (H), are not
entailed by the KG. By “not entailed” we mean they contradict what is stated in the
data. Bear in mind, however, that KGs do not store negative information. They can-
not state things like “Emanuel Macron does not speak English”. One could argue that
the absence of such fact in our example graph (Figure 1) entails that Macron does not
speak English. Unfortunately most KGs, and most particularly Web-based KGs, are in-
herently incomplete: the absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. This means that
if the KG does not say anything about Macron speaking English, we cannot conclude
he does not speak English. This information is unknown. Take as an example the rule
worksFor(x, EU) ⇒speaks(x, English). Since E. Macron works for the EU, this rule pre-
dicts he speaks English. We therefore have a problem when computing the confidence
of this rule because we do not have a way to say whether this prediction is an example
or a counter-example. As we will see in the next paragraph, one needs to make some
assumptions about the completeness of KGs in order to evaluate the accuracy of logical
rules and their inferences.
Closed World vs Open World Assumption The Closed World Assumption (CWA), com-
monly applied in database systems and logic programming, is the assumption that KGs
are complete. This means that any statement not explicitly present in the KG is as-
sumed false. This applies for speaks(E. Macron, English) in our example graph from
Figure 1. It follows that this fact would be considered as a counter-example for the rule
worksFor(x, EU) ⇒speaks(x, English). The CWA allow us to devise a confidence metric
for rules, hence Equation 5 becomes:
std-conf K (B ⇒H) = supp(B ⇒H)
#σH : σH (B) ⊩ K. (6)
The CWA confidence, also called standard confidence normalizes the support of the rule
by the number of examples that make the rule fire. This denominator term includes both
the positive examples and the predictions that are not present in the KG – now assumed
as negative examples. In our example KG of Figure 1, the rule birthCountry(x, EU) ⇒
speaks(x, English) has a confidence of 2
3 because Angela Merkel satisfies the conditions
June 2024
known to KG unknown to KG
KGtrue
NEWtrue
Predictions
true
known to
be true
unknown
known to
be false
unknown
false
KGfalse
NEWfalse
Figure 2. The classification of predictions made by a rule B1 ∧B2 ∧... ∧Bn = ⇒ p(x, y) pertains to a fact in
the rule head. This fact can be either true or false in the real world and can be known or unknown to the KG.
This results in four possible situations regarding the KG and the real world. Predictions made by the rule with
respect to the KG are represented inside the circle.
of the rule but the conclusion is not in the KG. Albeit sensible for databases and classical
association rule mining, the CWA is problematic for KGs, because they are inherently
incomplete and operate under the Open World Assumption that says nothing about absent
statements: they are unknown.
In contrast, the OWA does not offer a solution to the problem of determining whether
a prediction should be counted as a counter-example or not (see Figure 2). A way to deal
with this issue is the partial completeness assumption [3], also called the local closed
world assumption [4]. The PCA assumes that information in KGs is added in “batches”.
If the KG constructor included one language for let us say, U.v.d. Leyen, then it included
all her languages in the KG. This assumption allows us to devise a new criterion to de-
fine counter-examples for rules: if a rule such as worksFor(x, EU) ⇒speaks(x, English)
predicts a new language for a person and that language is different from the languages
stated in the KG, then that prediction must be a counter-example. An important corollary
of this assumption is that if the KG does not know any language for that person, then
the OWA applies and that example is labeled unknown and therefore excluded both as
positive example or as counter-example. This assumption can be therefore used to devise
a new confidence score, the PCA confidence [3]:
pca-conf K (B ⇒H) = supp(B ⇒H)
#σH : σH (B ∧H′) ⊩ K , H′
= r(x, y
′) or H′
= r(x
′
, y). (7)
Equation 7 normalizes the support by the number of head substitutions that make the rule
fire and for which there is a known head fact. This fact can be the rule’s prediction but can
be a different since the new variables x′
, y′in the formula are existentially quantified. In
our example from Figure 1, the PCA confidence of the rule speaks(E. Macron, English)
is 2
2 . Differently from the standard confidence, Angela Merkel is not used as a counter-
example because the KG does not know anything about the languages she speaks, i.e.,
June 2024
there is no match for the head atom. Furthermore, the PCA confidence assumes the pre-
diction is made in one direction, usually the more functional direction: we predict the
language of a person instead of predicting all the speakers of a language. Therefore the
choice of the atom H′depends on the nature of the head relation.
As shown by Gal´ arraga et al [5], the PCA is a sensible assumption for many rela-
tions, specially functional (1-1) or quasi-functional (almost 1-1) relations such as place
of birth or nationality. The PCA is clearly less sound for n-to-n relations such as friend-
ships or co-authorships and can make mistakes for quasi-functions. In our example graph
(Figure 1) the PCA is right about the nationalities, birth countries and genders of our
example entities, but it is false for the languages they speak since it would assume E.
Macron does not speak English and U.v.d. Leyen does not speak any other languages
besides English and German – which is actually not true.
3. Rule Mining
Rule mining is the task of learning logical rules from a knowledge graph fully automat-
ically. This problem is challenging for two main reasons. First, it is computationally ex-
pensive, specially for large KGs, because it incurs the exploration of a very large search
space. Second, it requires to make assumptions about what constitutes a counter-example
in order to evaluate the quality of the rules. Since those rules are usually used for in-
ference tasks, it is common to focus on closed rules, which as a side effect also reduce
the space of rules to explore. There are different approaches to rule mining that we will
describe in the following.
3.1. Inductive Logic Programming
The study of learning Horn clauses has been a significant focus in the inductive logic
programming (ILP) field [6,7,8]. ILP methods are based on search of the space of possi-
ble patterns or rules. To systematically explore the space during the learning process, ILP
methods usually use refinement operators. A refinement operator defines a way to move
from one candidate rule to another, more specific or more general. In rule mining, partic-
ularly within ILP, refinement operators help navigate the pattern or rule space in a struc-
tured manner. Refinement operators usually add/remove atoms or specialize/generalize
predicates. We will see example refinement operator in Section 3.1.1 where the algorithm
AMIE is discussed.
3.1.1. AMIE
AMIE [3] is a top-down closed rule mining algorithm designed for large KGs under the
OWA. AMIE constructs new rules by adding atoms to already discovered rules. This
process is called refinement. Some of those rules will be intermediate non-closed rules
that AMIE refines but does not output. By default, the algorithm starts with all the rules
of the form /0 ⇒r(x, y) that are iteratively refined via three mining operators:
Add dangling atom refines a rule with a new atom containing a fresh variable. For rule
/0 ⇒speaks(x, y), this operator could produce rules such as hasOfficialLang(z1, y) ⇒
speaks(x, y) or nationality(x, z1) ⇒speaks(x, y).
June 2024
Add closing atom adds a new atom without fresh variables. In our previous exam-
ple, this operator could lead to the rule likes(x, y) ⇒speaks(x, y). Similarly, the
rule hasOfficialLang(z1, y) ⇒speaks(x, y) could be closed by adding the atom
nationality(x, z1) to the body.
Add instantiated atom refines the rule with an instantiated atom, that is, an atom where
one of the arguments is a constant, e.g., the rule likes(x, y) ⇒speaks(x, y) could
become is(x, Linguist) ∧likes(x, y) ⇒speaks(x, y). By default, this operator is dis-
abled, but can be turned on by the user. This also allows the system to start with
rules of the form /0 ⇒r(x,C) or /0 ⇒r(C, y) for constants C from the KG.
These mining operators allow AMIE to explore the space of closed Horn rules. AMIE
imposes a user-defined minimum threshold on support and a maximum rule length (also
configurable by the user) to keep the search space under control. By default, AMIE finds
rules up to 3 atoms and stops the refinement as soon as head coverage drops below 1%.
This policy, based on the anti-monotonicity of the head coverage, speeds up the mining
by avoiding noisy rules that cover too few positive examples. AMIE can also enforce
user-defined thresholds on standard and PCA confidence (set by default to 10%).
All these considerations made AMIE the fastest rule mining algorithm on KGs at
its time of publication, achieving a speed up of at least 3 orders of magnitude w.r.t.
classical inductive logic programming approaches such as WARMR [9] and ALEPH [10]
on modern KGs such as YAGO2 [11] (approx. 1M facts) – previous approaches could
not handle larger datasets such as DBpedia. Moreover, and in contrast to its competitors,
its reliance on the PCA confidence to quantify the quality of rules made it produce more
and more precise predictions than its competitors. On YAGO2, for instance, the rules
had a precision in the range of 30%-40% and the PCA confidence proved more suitable
than the standard confidence at ranking best the rules that inferred good new predictions
– predictions beyond the KG.
AMIE+ [5] improves over AMIE with the help of various algorithmic optimizations to
speed up rule mining. This included changes in the rule refinement procedure as well as
some heuristics to discard potentially noisy rules. AMIE+ avoids refining rules when the
resulting refinement cannot lead to a closed rule given the maximal length constraint. It
also implements some query simplification for recursive rules, i.e., rules where a pred-
icate appears more than once. It also implements a skyline technique that stops refin-
ing closed rules that have already attained 100% confidence and propose lower bounds
and confidence estimations that prune noisy rules, i.e., rules of very low confidence, be-
fore computing their actual confidence scores – a computationally expensive task. All
these optimizations allowed AMIE+ to run on larger datasets such as DBpedia 3.8 and
Wikidata 2014 and achieve a speed up of at least one order of magnitude w.r.t. AMIE.
AMIE 3 Lajus et al. [12] introduced the latest version of AMIE, called as AMIE3, that
features several query processing and data representation improvements. For example,
the existential variable detection heuristic optimizes the queries required to compute
the rule confidence scores by properly identifying variables with existential semantics
whose instantiations do not need to be fully enumerated. AMIE3 also proposes a lazy
evaluation criterion for the confidence scores. This strategy stops the enumeration of the
solutions of the normalization term (denominator) of the confidence scores as soon as it
is clear that the resulting confidence will be below the minimum confidence threshold.
Other optimizations include the parallelization of the construction of some indexes and
June 2024
the use of an integer-based representation for the entities and triples of the KG. AMIE3 is
then further compared with modern rule miners such as Rudik [13] and ScaleKB [14] on
YAGO2, DBPedia, and Wikidata and find that AMIE3 is one order of magnitude faster.
3.2. Path Sampling and Generalization
RuDiK [13] is an algorithm that discovers both positive and negative rules. Mining
negative rules helps to detect erroneous facts, which can be common in knowledge bases,
due to errors being propagated. RuDiK consists of three modules: the first module gener-
ates negative examples, the second one is an incremental rule miner and the last module
executes rules, to generate new facts and find inconsistencies.
Negative example generator creates negative examples, given a knowledge base and a
target predicate. It does this by leveraging the Local Closed-World Assumption
(LCWA) [15]. Under this assumption, if a triple q(s, o) does not occur in a knowl-
edge base, but q(s, x) is present, then q(s, o) is false. Similarly, if q(s, o) is present
but q′(s, o) is not, then q′(s, o) is false. RuDiK finds entities whose information is
more likely to be complete, to generate good negative examples.
Incremental rule miner discovers Horn Rules. Here, the atoms are of the form q(s, o).
The algorithm uses a set of positive examples G and a set of negative examples V.
The ideal solution is the minimal set of rules for which all the examples in G are
valid and none of those in V are. The goal of this rule miner is to find the optimal
set of weighted rules. The weight of a rule has two components. The first is the
ratio between the coverage of this rule over G and G itself. The second component
measures the same thing over V . Parameter α is set to define the weight of the first
component. There is also β , defined as 1-α. β defines the importance of the second
component. This definition of weight is extended to define a marginal weight as
follows. If R is a set of rules and r is a rule :
wm(r) = w(R ∪r)−w(R) (8)
A rule will not be added to the solution if its marginal weight is at or below 0. A
valid rule r(x,y) can be represented as a path between x and y in the knowledge
base, which is represented as a directed graph. Another type of atoms can be in-
cluded in the rules : literal comparison. For example, the rule
bornIn(a, x) ∧x ̸= U.S.A.= ⇒¬president(a,U.S.A.).
The algorithm starts with an entity x and keeps a set of candidate paths. At each
step, the path with the smallest marginal weight is expended. Once a path is con-
sidered valid, it is added to the solution, and it stops being expended.
Rule execution Once a rule has been discovered, RuDiK can run it in the knowledge
base, as a SPARQL query. This enables it to deduce new facts, or to detect erro-
neous ones that are in the knowledge base. The accuracy for new facts is 85%,
and 97% for inconsistencies. When running RuDiK over Wikidata, DBpedia and
YAGO 3, the proportion of erroneous triples was respectively 0.23%, 0.26% and
0.6%.
June 2024
Different parameters impact on the performance of RuDiK. Turning off literal com-
parison visibly degrades accuracy for both positive and negative rules. The level of noise
in the database also affects the performance, though RuDiK is rather robust in this regard.
Another important parameter is the maximum path length. When it is set at 2, precision
for positive rules drops to 49%. When it is set at 4, RuDiK does not finish after 24 hours,
and the precision is not notably better than when it is set at 3. Therefore, 3 is used as the
maximum path length. The last parameter is α and β , the weight parameters. There are
different optimal values for positive and negative rules, however the algorithm is robust
and the variation in performance are limited as long as α (and β ) is in the [0.1,0.9] range.
AnyBURL [16] is a bottom-up algorithm inspired by Golem [17] and Aleph [10]. The
algorithm chooses random paths of a set path profile, and generalizes them to rules.
A path profile “describes path length and whether the path is cyclic or acyclic”. The
support and confidence of these rules are then computed, and the rules that fulfil a given
criteria, usually minimum support or confidence, are stored. Given a completion task, the
candidates are ranked by the maximum confidence of the rules that have generated them,
then by the second best one, and so on, until one rule stands out. There is more than one
round of mining and selection of rules. Each round lasts a set amount of time. At the end,
the length of possible paths can be increased if the set of results reaches saturation, i.e.
if the number of new rules being discovered is too low.
AnyBURL also uses reinforcement learning to determine how much effort should
be dedicated for each path profile. It also uses Object Identity, which assumes that when
two variables appear in a rule, they designate different entities. This is made to avoid
redundant rules. There is a new version of AnyBURL [18], which introduces four ma-
jor modifications. The first modification is object identity as described in [19], to avoid
learning redundant rules, which would skew the confidence score. The second modifica-
tion is confidence sampling, which serves to avoid a depth-first search when computing
the confidence of a rule in a very large dataset. The third modification is reinforcement
learning-based sampling which makes the path sampling more robust, and especially
less sensitive to change in parameter settings. The fourth modification is multi-threading
which enhances the performance of AnyBURL on very large graphs and makes it 20
times faster than SOTA.
RARL [20] uses rule relatedness (or TBox relatedness) to rank candidate rules. The
authors define two boxes. The ABox contains the facts, while the TBox contains the
underlying schema of the knowledge base. Rules are considered related when they often
link the same subjects and objects in the ABox. The confidence of these rules is computed
under the Partial Completeness Assumption [5], which allows the creation of negative
examples.
3.3. Linear programming
A recent paper [21] presents LPRules, an algorithm for rule mining that uses linear pro-
gramming to mine rules inside a knowledge graph. It creates a weighted linear combina-
tion of FOL rules that are then used as a scoring function for knowledge graph comple-
tion. It also limits the size of the rules, to increase human interpretability.
June 2024
4. Neurosymbolic Methods
4.1. Deep learning and Rules
We now introduce end-to-end approaches that utilize deep neural networks (DNNs) to
learn rules by optimizing objective functions approximating path patterns.
4.1.1. Neural Logic Programming
Neural LP [22] is one of the pioneering efforts to integrate rule structure learning with
parameter learning in an end-to-end differentiable model. It draws inspiration from the
TensorLog [23] differentiable probabilistic logic framework. The TensorLog framework
compiles rule inference into a series of differentiable operations by linking rule applica-
tion to sparse matrix multiplications. The method thus simplifies the rule learning prob-
lem to algebraic operations on neural embedding-based representations of a given knowl-
edge graph.
The reasoning task the NeuralLP addresses involves three components: query, an
entity tail about which the query is made, and an entity head that serves as the query’s
answer. The objective is to generate a ranked list of entities in response to the query,
aiming to position the correct answer (i.e., the head) as high as possible on this list. We
can formalize the query as a rule
q1(x, z1) ∧... ∧qn(x, zn) ⇒p(x, y) (9)
with associated confidence α ∈[0, 1], where p(x, y) is the query, and q1, ..., qn are rela-
tions in the knowledge base. During inference, given an entity x, the score for each entity
y is calculated as the sum of the confidence scores of rules that imply p(x, y). A ranked
list of entities is then returned, where a higher score corresponds to a higher ranking.
TensorLog TensorLog maps each entity ei ∈E to a one-hot vector vi ∈{0, 1}|E |where
only the i-th entry is 1, and it defines an operator Mq for each relation q by mapping each
relation q ∈R to a matrix Mq ∈{0, 1}|E |×|E |such that its (i, j) entry is 1 iff q(ei, ej) is a
fact in the KG, where ei, ej ∈E . So Mq is essentially an adjacency matrix.
For instance, considering a subgraph of the KG presented in Figure 1 consisting
of 5 entities, every entity is encoded as a one-hot vector of length 5, corresponding to
the number of the entities in the subgraph, so, for relations q1 = birthCountry, q2 =
officialLang we have the following adjacency matrices:
Mq1
=
     
E. Macron U.v. Leyen EU French France
0 0 0 0 1 E. Macron
0 0 0 0 0 U.v. Leyen
0 0 0 0 0 EU
0 0 0 0 0 French
0 0 0 0 0 France     
June 2024
Mq2
=
     
E. Macron U.v. Leyen EU French France
0 0 0 0 0 E. Macron
0 0 0 0 0 U.v. Leyen
0 0 0 0 0 EU
0 0 0 0 0 French
0 0 0 1 0 France
     
We now establish the connection between TensorLog operations and logical rule in-
ference, where the goal is to imitate logical rule inference for some entity ei. The appli-
cation of the rule on an entity ei can be represented by performing matrix multiplications
Mq1·Mq2·
...
·Mqn·vi = s (10)
For example, consider the rule
birthCountry(x, z), o f f icialLang(z, y) ⇒speaks(x, y) which we can translate, for the sake of inference, to:
(11)
MbirthCountry Mo f f icialLang vy = s (12)
The non-zero entries in the vector s point to the entities for which p(x, y) (in this case
speaks(x, y)) is derived. These non-zero entries of the vector s equals the set of y such
that there exists z that birthCountry(x, z) and o f f icialLang(z, y) are in the KG.
Mq1×q2
=
     
E. Macron U.v. Leyen EU French France
0 0 0 1 0 E. Macron
0 0 0 0 0 U.v. Leyen
0 0 0 0 0 EU
0 0 0 0 0 French
0 0 0 0 0 France
     
By assigning vx = [1, 0, 0, 0, 0]⊤ to point to E. Macron and performing the matrix
multiplications, as the result we have s = [0, 0, 0, 1, 0]⊤, which points to French.
Let βi denote an ordered list of all relations appearing in the rules. Following [22],
the inference for each query is defined, more generally, as:
∑
l
αl ∏
k∈βl
Mqk (13)
s = ∑
(αl( ∏
l
k∈βl
Mqk vy)), score(x|y) = vx
⊤s (14)
In summary, the learning problem for each query becomes:
June 2024
max
{αl ,βl } ∑
{x,y}
score(x|y) = max
{αl ,βl } ∑
{x,y}
v⊤
x ∑
(αl( ∏
l
k∈βl
Mqk vy)) (15)
The goal is to extract the rules from the solution of the above optimization problem,
by using the defined operators.
Learning rules The set of rules that imply each query and the confidences associated
with these rules need to be learnt, that is {αl, βl}are to be learnt. To facilitate this by
addressing the problem of enumerating rules, Yang et al. [22] proposes to rewrite Equa-
tion 13 in the following way:
T
|R|
∏
∑
t=1
k
αk
t Mqk (16)
where T denotes the maximum length of rules and |R|the number of relations in the
knowledge graph. In order to combine the enumeration of the rules and confidence as-
signment, the key difference in this new formulation is that each relation in the rules is
associated with a weight.
Since rules may be of different length Yang et al [22] introduced a recurrent formu-
lation that resembles this in Equation 14. This version uses auxiliary memory vectors ut ,
which are at the beginning set to the given entity vy:
u0 = vy (17)
Then, at each step, the model first computes a weighted average of the previous memory
vectors using the memory attention vector bt , and secondly, it applies the TensorLog
operators using the operator attention vector at :
ut =
|R|
∑
ak
k
t Mqk
t−1
∑
τ=0
bτ
t uτ for 1 ≤t ≤T (18)
In the last step, the model computes a weighted average of the memory vectors. In
order to choose a proper rule length, attention is used in this step:
uT+1 =
T
∑
τ=0
bτ
T +1uτ (19)
The learnable parameters are the memory and operator attention vectors. Recurrent
neural networks can now be used that fit this recurrent formulation, and the authors of
[22] used LSTM for this purpose.
Neural-Num-LP [24] enhances Neural-LP by incorporating the ability to learn rules
with negations and numeric values. Additionally, it improves on Neural-LP through im-
plicit representation of essential matrix operations. These improvements include the use
of dynamic programming, cumulative sums for numerical comparison features, and low-
rank factorisations for negated atoms.
DRUM [25] was introduced to mitigate a tendency of Neural-LP to learn meaning-
less rules with high confidence that share atoms with valid rules. To mitigate this is-
sue, DRUM employs bidirectional RNNs to prune potentially incorrect rules as well as
low-rank decompositions of matrix Mp.
June 2024
4.1.2. Decoupling Models
To address challenges of optimization in joint learning of rule structures and confidence,
several methods have been proposed that separate these two tasks.
RNNLogic [26] addresses the challenges in existing methods that struggle with navi-
gating a large search space (as in neural logic programming). RNNLogic is composed of
a rule generator and a reasoning predictor. The rule generator is responsible for structure
learning and a reasoning predictor for confidence learning. The rule generator produces
logic rules for the reasoning predictor, for a given query. The reasoning predictor uses the
generated rules as input to reason over a knowledge graph and predict the answer. In each
iteration, the rule generator produces a set of logic rules. Moreover, in each iteration, the
reasoning predictor is updated to explore these rules for reasoning. In the next step, a set
of high-quality rules is identified from the generated rules via posterior inference. In the
final step, the rule generator is updated to align with the high-quality rules identified in
the previous step.
RNNLogic is optimized using an Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm.
RLogic [27] is a method for mining chain-like rules. The authors highlight two lim-
itations of other algorithms: their dependence on observed rule instances to define the
score function for rule evaluation, and their inability to mine rules that lack support from
rule instances. To address these challenges, RLogic operates by sampling closed paths
within a knowledge graph and proposes a sequential rule learning algorithm that decom-
poses a sequential model into smaller atomic models in a recursive manner. For example,
the relation path [birthCountry, o f f icialLang] existing in our sample KG (Figure 1) can
be replaced by a single relation nativeLang. To address cases when the relation to replace
with might not be present in the knowledge graph, a ”null” predicate is also introduced
into the relations set.
The authors introduce a relation path encoder and a close ratio predictor. The goal
of the relation path encoder is to find a head relation ph to replace an entire relation path.
The relation path encoder reduces the rule body [q1, ..., qn] to a head ph by recursively
merging relation pairs using a greedy algorithm. The close ratio predictor is based on
the observation that, even after logically deducing a reduction of the relation path to
a single relation head, this head relation may not always be present in the knowledge
graph. Therefore, the task of close ratio predictor is to estimate the ratio that a path will
close and the probability of replacing a relation pair with a single relation. A two-layer,
fully connected neural network (MLP) is used for this purpose.
4.2. Embeddings and rule learning
Among other things, the previously mentioned algorithms have been designed to provide
a rule-based approach for solving predictive tasks, e.g. the KG completion, with a set
of mined rules. The main feature of rule-based systems is the need to first obtain rules
whose relevance is then computed based on the coverage of a given rule by some exam-
ples occurring in the input KG. Hence, the rules searching process and their relevance
determination often require storing the entire KG in the memory to allow for fast explo-
ration of the search space or walking through the graph. This may be a problem for large
KGs since they have high resource requirements, and the existing systems are not able to
effectively scale input data and the mining process.
June 2024
Graph embeddings are often regarded as an alternative to rule-based approaches for
solving specific prediction tasks over graph data, e.g. for link prediction. The graph-
embeddings prediction model is composed of a nodes/relations representation (e.g. vec-
tors, matrices) and a scoring function (to calculate the reliability of a predicted entity).
The popularity of these kinds of models is given by a simple vector or matrix representa-
tion of the entire graph where fast and scalable vector operations can be performed, e.g.,
to determine similarities among nodes within Euclidean space. Recent studies have also
shown that some techniques using graph embeddings outperform convenient rule-based
approaches, like AnyBURL [28,29]. Some well-known methods to transform a KG or its
individual components (nodes and edges) into vectors are, e.g. RESCAL [30], HolE [31]
and TransE [32]. Besides pure graph embedding models, some algorithms even combine
the rule-based with the graph embedding approach.
An early approach combining embeddings and rule-based systems was called Em-
bedRULES [33]. The RLvLR algorithm [34] uses low-dimension embeddings of RDF
KG resources and predicates for fast search of Horn rules. This algorithm, which accord-
ing to the authors’ benchmark, outperforms EmbedRULES, focuses on a specific predi-
cate p at the head position. For each p it creates a sample of an input KG with such facts
that are connected to p up to the maximum length of the rule. This operation is required
for a large KG since RLvLR uses the RESCAL factorization to create embeddings by
default, which can be slow for large data sets. Most of the mining sub-processes, such as
paths finding, support and confidence computations, are performed by matrix operations
from embeddings and adjacency matrices. Although this method can be faster than state-
of-the-art approaches, such as AMIE, it is limited only to learning rules for a specific
predicate and is not designed to discover rules with constants. The main use case of this
algorithm is traceable KG completion with a given predicate.
Another rule mining system using embeddings is RuLES2 [35]. It uses the AMIE
approach to generate rules (with or without constants) and an embedding pre-trained
model by TransE, HolE, or SSP [36] for computing measures of significance.
While learning rules from embeddings has certain advantages, it is also known to
have multiple weaknesses.
Differences in predictive performance between rule-based, rule embedding and pure
embedding models There is a paucity of research showing better performance of
embeddings-based rule approaches over pure rule learning approaches. Compared with
the state-of-the-art RLvLR algorithm, the pure rule-learning approaches AnyBURL and
its enhanced version SAFRAN [37] are reported to perform better [37]. However, this
benchmark is based only on one dataset (FB15K-237). The same paper [37] also shows
that SAFRAN generally performs on part with the best embedding-based (latent) ap-
proaches, but unlike them, it is rule-based and thus inherently interpretable. It should
be noted the evaluation in [37] is limited by possibly different evaluation conditions be-
tween RLvLR and SAFRAN and may not be free of bias, as the evaluation was done by
the author of some of the compared methods.
Explainability With the growing emphasis on explainability in machine learning, a ma-
jor limitation is that the predictions generated by graph embedding models are not trace-
able. Thus, the reliability of the prediction is given by the scoring function, which, how-
2https://github.com/hovinhthinh/RuLES
June 2024
ever, does not explain to us what parameters lead to a given score. This is in contrast to
rule-based models, where a specific score (confidence) value can be traced back to indi-
vidual paths in the training data. For example, the RDFRules system offers a graphical
interface to easily trace predictions based on AMIE-like rule-based models [38].
4.3. RLvLR: Rule Learning via Learning Representations
The Rule Learning via Learning Representations (RLvLR) algorithm is inspired by Neu-
ralLP. It mines closed rules introduced in section 2, that have the form shown in Eq. 1.
p1(x, z1) ∧p2(z1, z2)... ∧pn(zn−1, y) ⇒p(x, y). (20)
RLvLR uses the Standard confidence (Eq. 6) and Head Coverage (Eq. 4) to evaluate
the quality of rules. RLvLR authors state three main improvements compared to previous
approaches such as NeuralLP described earlier:
• removing data not relevant for computation,
• argument embeddings: new rule quality measure through,
• rule quality computed through matrix operations.
Removing data not relevant for computation This operation takes advantage of the
problem formulation, where for a given head predicate p and maximum rule length l,
only entities that are directly or indirectly related to p are relevant for the mining.
For each head predicate p, this procedure creates a subset of the input KG containing
facts that are connected to p up to the maximum length of the rule l(l ≥2). The fact and
entity selection is done so that the subset contains all information relevant for learning
rules of length l with a given head predicate p. The algorithm first identifies the sets
e0. . . ei. . . el−2, which contain entities in facts directly (for i= 0) or indirectly (for i >
0) related to p. Consequently a subset of the original KG is generated, referred to as
KG′
. KG′ contains only those facts from the original KG, where both entities in the
fact (subject and object) are present among the previously identified entities (those in
E′
=
l−2
i ei).
Referring to the sample knowledge graph in Figure 1, consider this procedure
for speaks as the head predicate p and l= 2. The algorithm first identifies the set
e0, which contains entities in facts directly related to p. In this case, the directly re-
lated facts are {speaks(UvdLeyen, English), speaks(Macron, French)}, hence the set
e0 = {Macron, French,UvdLeyen, English}. Since l= 2, the set e′
l=2 = e0 and KG′
2 =
speaks(EMacron, French), speaks(U.v.d.Leyen, English). However, there is no non-
trivial rule of length 2 that can be extracted from KG′
l=2. We need to, therefore, increase
the value of l to l= 3. Now, we additionally need to compute the set e1, which will
contain those entities that are linked to any of the entities in e0 by any predicate. We get
e1 = {English, German, Germany, EU, f emale, France, male}. Consequently, el=3 will
contain all entities from the original KG except A. Merkel. Based on el=3, we will get
KG′
l=3, which will contain all statements in the original KG in Figure 1 except for na-
tionality(A. Merkel, Germany) and birthCountry(A. Merkel, Germany). From this KG,
the algorithm can extract rules such as the one in Eq. 3 and the absence of some facts (in
this case, two facts with A Merkel), will make this process faster.
June 2024
Note that while this step was originally called ‘sampling’ by RLvLR authors, it does
not, in our opinion, correspond to the probabilistic implementation of sampling, which is
typically understood as a random process affecting a user-set percentage of data samples.
As the example shows, in RlvLR, this step can be variously effective based on the rule’s
length (l parameter) and the graph’s overall characteristics.
Argument embedding KG embeddings, as implemented by, e.g., the RESCAL algo-
rithm, apply to entities and relations. With argument embeddings
RLvLR uses both synonymy and the newly introduced co-occurrence scoring func-
tions. We will first introduce the synonymy scoring function, including with an example,
and then we will briefly cover the more complex co-occurrence scoring function, details
of which can be found in the article describing RLvLR [39].
Using the notation we introduced in section 4.1.1, predicates in a body of a RLvLR
rule are represented using adjacency matrices P1, . . . , Pn and the head predicate using
embedding matrix P, the product P1·P2·
. . .
·Pn should, according to the authors, capture
pairs of entities connected by the body of the rule. As the body should be predictive of
the head, the more this product is similar to the matrix P, the better. To measure ma-
trix similarity, the RLvLR algorithm uses the exponentiated result of a Frobenius norm
of the difference between the two matrices. Unfortunately, the authors do not provide
source code or additional details on how the embeddings are computed, besides a generic
reference to predicate embeddings from [40].
In addition to the synonymy scoring function, the RLvLR algorithm uses the co-
occurrence scoring function. To compute this, the authors introduced the concept of ar-
gument embeddings, which are averages of the “embedding vectors” in the subject and
object positions of the given predicate.
Matrix computation of rule evaluation measures The RLvLR algorithm uses adjacency
matrices to compute the rules’ standard confidence and head coverage. We will illustrate
how head coverage is computed.
Let us use the sample knowledge graph in Figure 1, and rule 3 as an example.
In the following, there are adjacency matrices for the two predicates in the body of
the rule.
MbirthCountry=
UvL AM EM Gy Fr EU En Ge Fr ma fe
U.v.d. Leyen 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
A. Merkel 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
E. Macron 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
Germany 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
France 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
EU 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
English 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
German 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
French 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0                
                
June 2024
Mo f f icialLang=
UvL AM EM Gy Fr EU En Ge Fr ma fe
U.v.d. Leyen 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
A. Merkel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
E. Macron 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Germany 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
France 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
EU 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
English 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
German 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
French 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                
                
The product of these matrices is:
Mbody=
UvL AM EM Gy Fr EU En Ge Fr ma fe
U.v.d. Leyen 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
A. Merkel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
E. Macron 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
Germany 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
France 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
EU 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
English 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
German 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
French 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                
                
This matrix MP1P2 shows which entities satisfy the body of the rule. Note that in our
example, all elements are 0 or 1. If any matrix element would be greater than 1, such
value would be replaced by 1.
In this case, we see that the body of the rule is matched by paths path1={birthCountry(U.v.d.
Leyen, Germany), officialLang(Germany, German)}, path2={birthCountry(Merkel, Ger-
many), officialLang(Germany, German)}and path3={birthCountry(E. Macron, France),
officialLang(France, French)}. These paths correspond to the instantiations of #σH : σH (B) ⊩ K
from Eq. 6.
Now, we want to compare how this connects with the adjacency matrix for the head
relation speaks:
June 2024
Mhead =
UvL AM EM Gy Fr EU En Ge Fr ma fe
U.v.d. Leyen 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0
A. Merkel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
E. Macron 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
Germany 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
France 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
EU 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
English 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
German 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
French 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                
                
Here, we can see that Mhead and Mbody overlap in two facts that relate to the head pred-
icate: speaks(U.v.d Leyen, German), which connects to body path1 and speaks(Macron,
French), which connects to body path3. Hence, we got two complete instantiations for
the rule (B ⇒H). According to Eq. 2, the value of support is 2.
In this way, in the case of RLvLR, we demonstrated how matrix operations can be
used to compute rule quality measures.
4.4. Large Language Models for Learning Rules
This section discusses some of the recent studies using Large Language Models for learn-
ing rules.
4.4.1. Hypotheses-to-Theories
One of the recent framework, Hypotheses-to-Theories (HtT) [41] is designed to learn a
set of rules from training examples, which is then used for reasoning over test samples
using Large Language Models (LLMs). The framework is designed with the objective
to target the issue of incorrect rule generation by LLMs which is often the case when
LLMs rely on their implicit knowledge for rule creation instead of taking into account
the problem at hand or the data provided. The framework employs both inductive and
deductive reasoning through few-shot prompting. Inductive reasoning involves deriving
general rules from specific observations, while deductive reasoning involves deriving
new facts based on the existing ones.
Induction Stage: Learning a Rule Library. The induction stage aims to learn rules
from training examples without explicit rule annotations. For each training example (a
question-answer pair), HtT prompts an LLM to generate rules for answering the ques-
tion. Regular expressions are then used to extract rules from the LLM’s output. Given
the noisy nature of LLM reasoning, rules and accuracy metrics are collected from a suf-
ficient number of training examples. The rules are filtered based on criteria from [3],
considering both coverage and confidence. Coverage indicates how likely a rule is to be
reused, while confidence indicates how likely it is to be correct.
Deduction Stage: Reasoning using the Rule Library. The rule library generated in the
induction phase is used for deductive reasoning prompt based on Chain-of-Thought
prompting. The examples are modified to teach the LLM to retrieve rules from the library
whenever it needs to generate a rule. If all the rules required by a question are present in
June 2024
the library, the LLM should generate correct rules for each step without errors. In order
to facilitate the rule retrieval process the rule library is organized into a hierarchy using
XML where each tag refers to a cluster.
4.4.2. ChatRule
ChatRule [42] is a framework designed for mining logical rules for Knowledge Graph
(KG) reasoning tasks. The initial step involves an LLM-based rule generator that lever-
ages both the semantic and structural information of KGs to prompt LLMs to create log-
ical rules. To achieve this, the rule sampler conducts a Breadth-First Search (BFS) to
sample several closed paths from KGs.
For instance, given a triple (h1, rj,t1), the closed-path is defined as a sequence of
relations r1, . . . , rn that connects h1 and t1 in KGs, i.e., h1
r1 −→h2
r2 −→. . .
rj −→eL. For
example, given a triple (Alice, GrandMother, Charlie), a closed-path p can be found as:
p := Alice Mother
−→ Bob Father
−→Charlie,
which completes the triple (Alice, GrandMother, Charlie) in KGs. For a given target
relation, a set of seed triples is selected from KGs, and BFS is conducted to sample a set
of closed paths with lengths less than L, forming a set of rule instances. The actual enti-
ties in these rule instances are then replaced with variables to create rule samples. Each
generated rule is verbalized into a natural language sentence, which is then incorporated
into the prompt template.
To refine the generated rules, a rule ranking module assesses their quality by integrat-
ing facts from existing KGs. This ranking process utilizes support, coverage, confidence,
and PCA confidence, as inspired by [3]. The ranked rules are then used for reasoning
over KGs, addressing downstream tasks such as knowledge graph completion. In these
tasks, candidate answers are ranked based on scores derived from coverage, confidence,
or PCA confidence.
5. Conclusions
In this chapter, we described rule learning algorithms for knowledge graphs. We began
with a comprehensive overview of the rule mining problem, followed by a discussion of
popular rule mining algorithms to establish a foundation. Finally, we explored state-of-
the-art neuro-symbolic rule learning approaches.
Acknowledgments
Part of section 4.2 is adapted from the dissertation thesis of VZ [43].
References
[1] Boschin A, Jain N, Keretchashvili G, Suchanek F. Combining Embeddings and Rules for Fact Predic-
tion (Invited Paper). In: DROPS-IDN/v2/document/10.4230/OASIcs.AIB.2022.4. Schloss Dagstuhl –
June 2024
[2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] Leibniz-Zentrum f¨ ur Informatik; 2022. Available from: https://drops.dagstuhl.de/entities/
document/10.4230/OASIcs.AIB.2022.4.
Wu H, Wang Z, Wang K, Omran PG, Li J. Rule Learning over Knowledge Graphs: A Review.
DROPS-IDN/v2/document/104230/TGDK117. 2023. Available from: https://drops.dagstuhl.
de/entities/document/10.4230/TGDK.1.1.7.
Gal´ arraga LA, Teflioudi C, Hose K, Suchanek F. AMIE: association rule mining under incomplete
evidence in ontological knowledge bases. In: Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World
Wide Web. WWW ’13. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery; 2013. p. 413-22.
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1145/2488388.2488425.
Dong XL, Gabrilovich E, Heitz G, Horn W, Lao N, Murphy K, et al. Knowledge Vault: A Web-Scale
Approach to Probabilistic Knowledge Fusion. In: The 20th ACM SIGKDD International Conference
on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD; 2014. p. 601-10. Available from: http://www.cs.
cmu.edu/~nlao/publication/2014.kdd.pdf.
Gal´ arraga L, Teflioudi C, Hose K, Suchanek FM. Fast rule mining in ontological knowledge bases with
AMIE$$+$$. The VLDB Journal. 2015 Dec;24(6):707-30. Available from: https://doi.org/10.
1007/s00778-015-0394-1.
Muggleton S, de Raedt L. Inductive Logic Programming: Theory and methods. The Journal of
Logic Programming. 1994 May;19-20:629-79. Available from: https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/0743106694900353.
Nienhuys-Cheng S, de Wolf R. Foundations of Inductive Logic Programming. vol. 1228 of Lec-
ture Notes in Computer Science. Springer; 1997. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1007/
3-540-62927-0.
Raedt LD. Inductive Logic Programming. In: Sammut C, Webb GI, editors. Encyclopedia of Machine
Learning and Data Mining. Boston, MA: Springer US; 2017. p. 648-56. Available from: https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4899-7687-1_135.
Goethals B, Van den Bussche J. Relational Association Rules: Getting Warmer. In: Hand DJ, Adams
NM, Bolton RJ, editors. Pattern Detection and Discovery. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidel-
berg; 2002. p. 125-39.
Muggleton S. Learning from positive data. In: Muggleton S, editor. Inductive Logic Programming.
Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg; 1997. p. 358-76.
Suchanek FM, Kasneci G, Weikum G. Yago: a core of semantic knowledge. In: Proceedings of the
16th International Conference on World Wide Web. WWW ’07. New York, NY, USA: Association for
Computing Machinery; 2007. p. 697–706. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1145/1242572.
1242667.
Lajus J, Gal´ arraga L, Suchanek F. Fast and exact rule mining with AMIE 3. In: The Semantic Web: 17th
International Conference, ESWC 2020, Heraklion, Crete, Greece, May 31–June 4, 2020, Proceedings
17. Springer; 2020. p. 36-52.
Ortona S, Meduri VV, Papotti P. Robust Discovery of Positive and Negative Rules in Knowledge Bases.
In: 2018 IEEE 34th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE); 2018. p. 1168-79. ISSN:
2375-026X. Available from: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8509329.
Chen Y, Wang DZ, Goldberg S. ScaLeKB: scalable learning and inference over large knowledge
bases. The VLDB Journal. 2016 dec;25(6):893–918. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00778-016-0444-3.
Dong XL, Gabrilovich E, Heitz G, Horn W, Murphy K, Sun S, et al. From data fusion to knowledge
fusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:150300302. 2015.
Meilicke C, Chekol MW, Ruffinelli D, Stuckenschmidt H. An introduction to AnyBURL. In: KI 2019:
Advances in Artificial Intelligence: 42nd German Conference on AI, Kassel, Germany, September 23–
26, 2019, Proceedings 42. Springer; 2019. p. 244-8.
Muggleton SH, Feng C, et al. Efficient induction of logic programs. Turing Institute London, UK; 1990.
Meilicke C, Chekol MW, Betz P, Fink M, Stuckeschmidt H. Anytime bottom-up rule learning for
large-scale knowledge graph completion. The VLDB Journal. 2024 Jan;33(1):131-61. Available from:
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00778-023-00800-5.
Semeraro G, Esposito F, Malerba D, Brunk C, Pazzani M. Avoiding non-termination when learning logic
programs: A case study with FOIL and FOCL. In: Logic Program Synthesis and Transformation—Meta-
Programming in Logic: 4th International Workshops, LOPSTR’94 and META’94 Pisa, Italy, June 20–21,
1994 Proceedings. Springer; 1994. p. 183-98.
June 2024
[20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] Pirr` o G. Relatedness and TBox-Driven Rule Learning in Large Knowledge Bases. Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. 2020 Apr;34(03):2975-82. Available from: https:
//ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5690.
Dash S, Goncalves J. Rule induction in knowledge graphs using linear programming. In: Proceedings
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. vol. 37; 2023. p. 4233-41.
Yang F, Yang Z, Cohen WW. Differentiable learning of logical rules for knowledge base reasoning. In:
Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems. NIPS’17.
Red Hook, NY, USA: Curran Associates Inc.; 2017. p. 2316-25.
Cohen WW. TensorLog: A Differentiable Deductive Database. CoRR. 2016;abs/1605.06523. Available
from: http://arxiv.org/abs/1605.06523.
Wang PW, Stepanova D, Domokos C, Kolter JZ. Differentiable learning of numerical rules in knowledge
graphs; 2020. Available from: https://iclr.cc/virtual_2020/poster_rJleKgrKwS.html.
Sadeghian A, Armandpour M, Ding P, Wang DZ. DRUM: End-To-End Differentiable Rule Mining
On Knowledge Graphs. In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. vol. 32. Curran
Associates, Inc.; 2019. Available from: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2019/hash/
0c72cb7ee1512f800abe27823a792d03-Abstract.html.
Qu M, Chen J, Xhonneux LP, Bengio Y, Tang J. RNNLogic: Learning Logic Rules for Reasoning on
Knowledge Graphs; 2020. Available from: https://openreview.net/forum?id=tGZu6DlbreV.
Cheng K, Liu J, Wang W, Sun Y. RLogic: Recursive Logical Rule Learning from Knowledge Graphs.
In: Proceedings of the 28th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining.
KDD ’22. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery; 2022. p. 179-89. Available
from: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3534678.3539421.
Rossi A, Barbosa D, Firmani D, Matinata A, Merialdo P. Knowledge graph embedding for link pre-
diction: A comparative analysis. ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data (TKDD).
2021;15(2):1-49. https://doi.org/10.1145/3424672.
Meilicke C, Fink M, Wang Y, Ruffinelli D, Gemulla R, Stuckenschmidt H. Fine-Grained Evaluation
of Rule and Embedding-Based Systems for Knowledge Graph Completion. In: International Semantic
Web Conference. Springer; 2018. p. 3-20. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00671-6_1.
Nickel M, Tresp V, Kriegel HP. A Three-Way Model for Collective Learning on Multi-Relational Data.
In: ICML. vol. 11; 2011. p. 809-16. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/3104482.3104584.
Nickel M, Rosasco L, Poggio T. Holographic Embeddings of Knowledge Graphs. In: Proceedings of
the Thirtieth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. AAAI’16. AAAI Press; 2016. p. 1955–1961.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/3016100.3016172.
Bordes A, Usunier N, Garcia-Duran A, Weston J, Yakhnenko O. Translating embeddings for modeling
multi-relational data. In: Advances in neural information processing systems. NIPS’13. Red Hook, NY,
USA: Curran Associates Inc.; 2013. p. 2787-95. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/2999792.
2999923.
Yang B, Yih W, He X, Gao J, Deng L. Embedding Entities and Relations for Learning and Inference
in Knowledge Bases. In: Bengio Y, LeCun Y, editors. 3rd International Conference on Learning Rep-
resentations, ICLR 2015, San Diego, CA, USA, May 7-9, 2015, Conference Track Proceedings; 2015.
Available from: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6575.
Omran PG, Wang K, Wang Z. Scalable Rule Learning via Learning Representation. In: Proceedings
of the 27th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence. IJCAI’18. AAAI Press; 2018. p.
2149-55. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/3304889.3304958.
Ho VT, Stepanova D, Gad-Elrab MH, Kharlamov E, Weikum G. Rule Learning from Knowledge Graphs
Guided by Embedding Models. In: International Semantic Web Conference. Springer; 2018. p. 72-90.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00671-6_5.
Xiao H, Huang M, Meng L, Zhu X. SSP: Semantic Space Projection for Knowledge Graph Embedding
with Text Descriptions. In: Thirty-First AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence; 2017. .
Ott S, Meilicke C, Samwald M. SAFRAN: An interpretable, rule-based link prediction method outper-
forming embedding models. arXiv preprint arXiv:210908002. 2021.
Zeman V, Kliegr T, Sv´ atek V. RDFRules: Making RDF rule mining easier and even more efficient.
Semantic web. 2021;12(4):569-602.
Omran PG, Wang K, Wang Z. An embedding-based approach to rule learning in knowledge graphs.
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering. 2019;33(4):1348-59.
Yang B, Yih SWt, He X, Gao J, Deng L. Embedding Entities and Relations for Learning and Inference in
June 2024
Knowledge Bases. In: Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)
2015; 2015. .
[41] Zhu Z, Xue Y, Chen X, Zhou D, Tang J, Schuurmans D, et al. Large Language Models can Learn Rules.
CoRR. 2023;abs/2310.07064.
[42] Luo L, Ju J, Xiong B, Li Y, Haffari G, Pan S. ChatRule: Mining Logical Rules with Large Language
Models for Knowledge Graph Reasoning. CoRR. 2023;abs/2309.01538.
[43] Zeman V. Rule mining over linked data. Prague University of Economics and Bu